Peter Rushforth: Sounds like it's going.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay! So, welcome everyone to week
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Two of the W3C and OGC's Joint Workshop on Maps for the Web.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Bit of logistics in case we have some new visitors.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: We're talking live on zoom chat. There will also be all the videos posted to YouTube later.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Live Chat as we go along, including questions for panelists, preferred if it goes into the Gitter chat I posted the link in the zoom chat. Beyond this, the Zoom chat, we try and encourage only for Zoom technical issues.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Because it's not an archived forum and we'd like to keep the conversation going for people who
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Can't be here right now because it might be a horrible time where they are. Thank you for those of you who are here right now, even if it might be a horrible time. We're glad to have people to talk to
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: And of course for longer form discussion, lasting after the call, we have the Discourse discussion as well. I would like to remind you that we were operating under the W3C's code of ethical and professional conduct. If you have any concerns about
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Anything that is happening in the sessions in the chat. You can contact any of the program committee or the W3C ombuds office, I would like to thank Natural Resources Canada who have been sponsoring a lot of the work on this workshop
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: And
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Including the captioning. If you're here live there is somewhere in your bottom toolbar of the zoom
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Option to show the CC closed captioning of the discussion.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: I think that's all our logistics. I'd like to get started.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Our first theme of the day or a theme for the first hour is how maps can improve accessibility for people navigating in the real world. We're going to start with two talks and then have a panel.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Our first talk is by Sebastian Felix Zappe on physical accessibility data and maps Sebastian is Tech Lead at Sozialhelden in Germany, a nonprofit focusing on disability rights, they're involved in many different projects on this theme, including
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Wheelmap, an online map of accessible places.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: And accessibility JSON. A 11 why JSON data standard for describing accessibility and the W3C community group on Linked Data for accessibility. So that's about all the information I have, Sebastian, I welcome you to take the mic and share your screen.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Yes, I hope you see everything and you can hear me. Well, thanks for this introduction. Um, yeah, I'm Sebastian Felix from [inaudible]
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Welcome to this and let me stop, start, quickly. So what we focus on today is mostly the things
Sebastian Felix Zappe: If you have a physical place you often have the problem "Can I get in", if you, for example, have a stroller for your child or if you have a wheelchair or you're blind or if you need spaces to be quiet for you. And there are many other examples where
Sebastian Felix Zappe: You might find a physical place not accessible. And that's what we care for
Sebastian Felix Zappe: We built this thing called Wheelmap.org that's an app you can download for your smartphone or using the browser.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And it just shows you access of places all around for people with wheelchairs this case they're just marked in red, green, or blue. The other screen
Sebastian Felix Zappe: To show if they are accessible. And if you zoom in. You can also see that they are shown in different ways. So everything that's green is a circle. Everything that's red is a square, which means it's accessible for people who are colorblind.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So it looks a bit like this.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: If a place is fully accessible, It's, as I said, green, and circle. If it's partially accessible, it's, it's a polygon in orange. If it's not accessible, it's a red square on this map. And I would also like to recommend if you if you do anything that has to do with accessibility,
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Use something that is as simple as this. And we are we're available in 32 languages right now.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So it's
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Already quite international
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And wheelmap.org is based on OpenStreetMap. And so this means all the information you put into WheelMap is uploaded to OpenStreetMap and the other way around. If you
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Mark a place accessible on OpenStreetMap for wheelchair users, then it's going to show up on Wheelmap as well. And we started around 10 years ago, with this project. In the meantime, we've got around 1 million
Sebastian Felix Zappe: OpenStreetMap based places on wheelmap.org that are marked as fully partially or not wheelchair accessible, completely by users.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: The thing is, when you build an application like this, you, you build a kind of second world for people with disabilities and
Sebastian Felix Zappe: The question is always, does this mean like, is this issue solved now for people with wheelchair? So if you've got a wheelmap.org, does this mean that you can now like use the world. Does this mean equal participation and we think it does not
Sebastian Felix Zappe: We think that things like wheelmap and other apps for people with disabilities are just a intermediate step towards disability mainstreaming.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Disability mainstreaming means that all accessibility information should be available everywhere. So we think that this information does not belong into Wheelmap, it belongs into Google Maps, for example,
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Apple Maps and Yelp and all the all the apps that are related to this. So basically, every app.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Every app use case should be available for as many people as possible.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And we think that maps for the web. And now we know we finally get to why we are here.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Is a perfect case for this because everybody who's the computer, which is not everybody on the world. But most people
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Use a browser for browsing the web. And if we can make applications accessible in browsers, in all browsers.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Then this is a big step towards disability mainstreaming because this means that everybody can participate in everything that's available on the web.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So our question was, could we make maps for the web specs to make accessibility information is available everywhere. So can we kind of solve a part of this issue.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Let me first make a short course, um, where can you get physical accessibility data. So if you build a map application, for example, and you want to build in accessibility, you have to of course know
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Where to get this information if its accessibility of about physical places.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So first, of course, you can go to OpenStreetMap.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: There could be an example where there was a hotel on OpenStreetMap and there is a way that connects this hotel to the next street.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Which is connected to the next subway station and all this information can be augmented with accessibility information on OpenStreetMap so you can, for example, say the hotel has an entrance. It's at a specific
Sebastian Felix Zappe: specific location on a map. And it might have multiple entrances.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And one of them is wheelchair accessible and one is not, for example, the hotel could also have tags on the street that tell you that it's for example a quiet space or
Sebastian Felix Zappe: That there are tactile pavements that allow you to access this entrance
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So you can get data about accessibility from OpenStreetMap already. So this is already existing you can of course also get it from wheelmap.org as I just said.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: On wheelmap.org you might also have information about a specific hotels entrance, and if it has a ramp, for example, if this ramp is fixed.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: If this is a fixed installation, or if it's a mobile ramp that has to be put there by somebody
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And you can also find information about rooms. So for example, if there was a bathroom or a specific kind of toilet and what kind of amenities this toilet has.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Or you could, of course, go to a hotel booking platform that's kind of obvious and find photos about how the place looks and
Sebastian Felix Zappe: If you, if you can, if you can look at photos, if you have this ability, then this might help you to, to, for example,
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Prepare yourself to enter the end of the place through this one entrance and to see beforehand how it looks.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: For information like this, Sozialhelden has build accessibility.cloud, an open online platform for sharing this kind of data too, because OpenStreetMap is already quite nice for this whole thing, but
Sebastian Felix Zappe: We think it should be
Sebastian Felix Zappe: It should contain more accessible information. So when accessibility cloud, we
Sebastian Felix Zappe: We have an API that you can use it looks a bit like how I showed you on screen, so you can have a an application talking that you can register on this web platform and here in this case I'm using a CURL request to query places on the map and you get back GeoJSON in this case.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Accessibility cloud is connected to a lot of partners in the meantime we are supported by a lot of organizations that shared data on accessibility, in many cases for free and as open data so you can use it in your apps as well.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Three apps that use this API that are shown here, ImmoScout24, a big real estate platform in Germany, I Wheel Share, which has a chat bot to query accessible places all around you in France, and Wheelmap.org itself. So it's like, if you as a partner.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Or as an accessibility data source are connected to accessibility.cloud and register there and put your data online, it's pretty easy to let it show up in applications like the shown ones here and also of course in Maps for the web application soon, I hope.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So here are the 79 organizations that accessibility.cloud right now is connected to
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And they contribute around 1.3 million places to accessibility.cloud and Wheelmap and 3.8K real time elevators as well, to Wheelmap.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So this is also containing life data, which is also really relevant because if you have for example a wheelchair or if you're blind, you're often relying on elevators and escalators, and they are often out of operation. So if you notice in advance. This is really, really helpful.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: The problem with all this is that there are many accessibility data sets in the world and
Sebastian Felix Zappe: They are not very standardized, they all use very different vocabularies so we need to kind of harmonize them to make these available on accessibility cloud and in many cases this means
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Somebody sends us a CSV table or something, and all these CSV tables look very, very different. So we created a standard called a11yJSON and
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And you can look it up on A11yJSON.org
Sebastian Felix Zappe: It's a standard that is meant to harmonize all these different vocabularies that allows you to query information, for example, about a toilet in the way that it always looks the same, no matter which kind of data source you look at, so I will give you a code example now.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: It looks like this. So the
Sebastian Felix Zappe: The code shown here is a GeoJSON feature on a map showing specific cinema and it's got a geometry and properties, so you can see that it's a cinema and how the cinema is called.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And it includes a accessibility property as well. And this accessibility property is formatted in A11yJSON. And what you see here in this
Sebastian Felix Zappe: code snippet, in this A11yJSON code snippet, is that the place has two entrances, That one is the main entrances- That one is the main entrance and the one other one is the site gate.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And that the site gate has a fixed ramp and that the main entrance is level. So you can access it without a step and that its name is 30th Street.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: It also shows that the cinema is accessible with a wheelchair and that there is an animal policy, that means that
Sebastian Felix Zappe: The cinema allows you to to enter
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Allows you to enter with a guide dog, which is not which is not a law or something in every country, so it might make sense to to mark these places. So you can know which place. For example, you can enter with the guide dog and which one you can't so
Sebastian Felix Zappe: There is this animal policy thing in A11yJSOn as well, here are some interfaces, interface specifications that A11yJSON and specifies. So there is accessibility, there is this
Sebastian Felix Zappe: previously described animal policy, you can describe elevators, escalators, folding handles for toilets, ground quality, media mirrors, parking, pathways, payment, personal profile, so it means you can you can have data sets that tell you that specific groups.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Can access a service or a place and place enforce
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So, for example, like the shown cinema, and it describes the ramps, restrooms, rooms, showers. For example, training for staff so
Sebastian Felix Zappe: If staff has sort of certificate and is trained in specific things, then you can also mark this, it describes stairs, tables, toilets, washbasins, wheelchair parking, and wheelchair places in cinemas right now. So, these are the main interfaces that you can find in A11yJSON and they're already used
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And what this all is meant for is, we have a lot of these platforms on the web. So all of these platforms could publish
Sebastian Felix Zappe: A11yJSON data.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: The thing is that, A11yJSON itself.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Isn't isn't what we want. It's also just an intermediate step towards something bigger. And what we want is we want all platforms that exists on the web to semantically describe
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Their content on the web with with stuff like schema.org, for example. So we looked at schema.org and we also try to extend schema.org with missing vocabulary for accessibility.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: On the screen you see some of these platforms.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And how they describe accessibility and
Sebastian Felix Zappe: We don't want this information to be just there on the web pages. But of course, a user
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Who wants to look up all these things, for example, somebody who wants to book a room on a hotel platform wants not to look at, at
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Like three websites, for example, or like like 10 websites to find all this information, but they want to have everything in one place, obviously. So if they go to a platform that say booking.com
Sebastian Felix Zappe: They, they want to have all the information right there when they, when they look at a room, at a specific room that is offered on the web page, they, they want to know about the accessibility as well. And that's of course, true for everybody. And we use booking platform so.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: All the information from these platforms has to somehow end up there.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And this is what Linked Data is for this is what schema.org is for so schema.org allows you already to to describe and, for example,
Sebastian Felix Zappe: How places are connected. What, what kind of place you have in front of you. So if it's, if it's for example cinema or hotel and it allows you to to link
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Data across several platforms and easily connected with each other.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So,
Sebastian Felix Zappe: How could you describe physical accessibility in these standards. The thing is, that this is not standardized yet, this is something that has yet to come. So it's not there yet. And we thought about some ways to to maybe get it standardized in maps for the web as well. So here are
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Next two ideas how we could describe all these things in maps for the web.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: First example.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: There's an MapML proposal and we think that it might be a very, very good idea to as early as possible extend it with semantics data.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So currently it's something that is very, very visual.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So, it contains geometries and it contains information about how to render these geometries correctly visually. But if you would describe the features that are shown on the map, or in a visualization, in a geo visualization. If you would describe them with semantic meta data.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: The browsers
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Or the user agents, for that matter, could find out what the shown data actually means which is currently not possible yet. So this needs this kind of proposal, I would have shown here is a feature in MapML. So a probably, probably read it as a marker on a map.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Again, a hotel, and what we thought was, we could just extend this with things like micro formats or with with RDFa for example. So this is I'm looking like the idea of a standard
Sebastian Felix Zappe: In websites.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And it describes that this shown feature on the map is a hotel, and it has a specific amenity feature and for for this semantic description, it uses schema.org, so it uses features that are already available. It's not a dog. So this could, with this very simple proposal already be done.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: It would mean that the browser will understand that the shown point on the map is a hotel, and it would be able to, for example, read to a user that this hotel has a wheelchair accessible sauna, which is specified in this code.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Another example of which we thought was, we could easily just A11yJSON as a sub property in CityJSON. So CityJSON is a format that describes
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Whole cities, their buildings, their building parts and for example entrances on, in buildings and buildings inside as well. So it can be used for indoor mapping, and
Sebastian Felix Zappe: The building parts could just be augmented with this accessibility as described before it could just be
Sebastian Felix Zappe: A11yJSON built into CityJSON and this proposal does not exist, it. This is just an idea and we'd be happy to talk about this in the later discussions, if this is a good idea. Maybe you have better ideas and better feedback, how to how to get this done. And if we put this into CityJSON
Sebastian Felix Zappe: This might be a great way to easily integrate accessibility for physical data into browsers.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: If we do this, this opens up a lot of new possibilities.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Because, of course, user agents can be extended with browser extensions, it means that everybody was a specific need.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: could theoretically download a browser extension that would change the display of an existing map
Sebastian Felix Zappe: To their needs.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And this is a really, really, really big thing because this does not exist yet. And this, this would be very, very helpful. So just imagine
Sebastian Felix Zappe: It could it could even make real accessibility better in the world. So there could be built in things like if a place is more accessible.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Than different one, that more accessible place could be ranked differently in the labeling. So for example, let's say,
Sebastian Felix Zappe: You are blind and you need
Sebastian Felix Zappe: You need a restaurant, for example.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: To be accessible for your maybe have a Braille menu, just as an example.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And this Braille menu would be specified in A11yJSON
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Then, the places that do have this, could be shown as labels in higher zoom levels, in lower zoom levels and the other ones could just be
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Not read out by the screen reader and
Sebastian Felix Zappe: All the most
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Relevant places for you would just be like, right, first with with the higher the higher rank. So like for example, Google ranks web pages.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: By their accessibility, a map could rank places by their accessibility and this would be an incentive in the real world, just for marketing reasons and for
Sebastian Felix Zappe: For visibility reasons for, for example, restaurant owners, for hotel owners to build in real accessibility, just because it makes them more visible on the web.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And this would be a really, really big thing because it would change the real world. Just because we would build an algorithm for it.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And this would be something that would be really nice and some other examples include colorizing places as shown on, we're not
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Using a traffic light system. So if a browser knows that a specific place has a ramp. For example, it could mark this place green, but by default, without the author of the map having to do anything would just be built in into a browser or a  plugin.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: It could add indoor map context, links to places. So for example, you could right click by click on a place and by right clicking on your desktop on this place,
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Context menu could show up and offer you an indoor mapping different application, because you would have to semantic info about the place
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Or you could augment that with accessibility features. So, for example, wheelchair users could always see elevators on this map.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Like, no matter, no matter which map is and by whom it is made elevators could just be displayed because there is a browser plugin for it.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And nobody nobody would have to care as an author, but could be displaying accessible toilets. You could be displaying inaccessible or accessible sidewalks. For example, if they've got a
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Spot on the sidewalk or difficult sidewalk surface, which is relevant for many people, it could just be displayed on this map.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And it could be displaying ramps and stairs or many people
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Need specific environment noise levels and have difficulties, for example.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: With hearing and listening to a conversation if the environment noise level is high, this is also stuff that could be displayed on the map.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And last, it could allow voice assistant to understand what map features actually mean
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Something that's really important here is
Sebastian Felix Zappe: That
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Yes.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: How close are you to wrapping up? We're going over time.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Almost, almost like two minutes, I think, is it okay for you.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Oh, okay. So what's really important is, of course, the user doesn't want to disclose their health an application. So all these a11y features, if they are built into process, they need an extra layer of protection. So, for example, disability isn't, is not disclosed to every website visit
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So like location, the browser should allow you to allow or deny to share this information with a website.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And browsers and plugins and should not be reveal it if you don't want to share it, of course. And the other thing is that you always get this issue with user intent versus a map authors intent. So
Sebastian Felix Zappe: You could have something like aria labels so like HTML aria labels. You could also add this to maps.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: To give to give as an author hints to a screen reader or to use user agent, how to how to use them for accessibility. It could say something like the visual style of this feature should be
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Rendered like this if this is possible. I can say a map is a geo data visualization or it's made for discovering places which are like, totally different use cases. So the browser could
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Could use this information to to make the map more accessible as well and how you can help, for making all this happen, is participate in schema.org GitHub issue #254 which is the accessibility issue in schema.org and help us get this into schema.org
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Of course, participate in the W3C Linked Data for accessibility community group. So be really helpful. So if you if you can join us and join the discussion.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Do so please, and give A11yJSON a star on Github to make it more visible because many people don't know that this exists yet if they would know probably they would already be using it.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: And add data sets, if you know them on accessibility.cloud and other platforms to make them available to the world.
Sebastian Felix Zappe: So that's my ask. Thank you for listening and watching
Sebastian Felix Zappe: Thanks, there's my contact information.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Thank you Sebastian. Well, I already see there is lots of questions going on in the chat. People are excited about GeoJSON and Linked Data around here. So I hope you can connect up with people. I'm going to continue on to our
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: next talk is Claudia Loitsch and Julian Striegl
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Somebody else's sharing the video.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay.
Peter Rushforth: Yes, I'm going to share for Claudia. Yeah, no problem.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay, so, Claudia Loitsch and Julian Striegl.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Recorded their talk in advance. They are researchers at Dresden University of Technology, focusing on mobility related requirements of people with visual impairments.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: In particular, with a focus on navigation and orientation in indoor spaces.
Julian Striegl: Hello and welcome everybody to the presentation "Accessible Indoor Maps: Information Need and Automated Solutions to Address Gaps in Maps for People with Disabilities". My name is Julian Striegl. And I'm presenting this topic, together with Dr. Claudia Loitsch. We both work at the Dresden University of Technology.
In our project AccessibleMaps. We have an international and interdisciplinary team of the Dresden University of Technology and the Karisruhe Institute of Technology.
And we are working together on innovative and new solutions to improve mobility within buildings, our project aims to develop software that automatically generates indoor maps enriched with accessibility features and you can find more on our project on our website accessiblemaps.de
Our main motivation is the social relevance of the topic in particular because independent traveling and mobility is challenging for people with visual and mobility impairments. People with disabilities face several barriers when navigating to or orientating and unfamiliar buildings.
Overcoming permanent or temporary barriers is very challenging for people with disabilities. And for instance, you can see on the slide that ground level objects are sometimes not detectable for blind people using a cane.
So why do we focus on Indoor Maps? Well, compared to outdoor and public transport the indoor area has so far received the least attention.
At least in terms of data maps and user research and we believe that, in addition to navigation applications. Indoor Maps
Will help with the orientation in unknown buildings for people with disabilities. If you want to create accessible Indoor Maps for people with disabilities, you first need to understand the needs and abilities of those people.
David Fazio: People with disabilities need granular information about the layout orientation features as well as temporal relations, for example, obstacles such as construction sites to find their way independently.
David Fazio: Mobility impaired people primarily require structural information as they experienced barriers such as narrow doors or passages, lack or nonfunctioning
David Fazio: elevators and escalators, lack of handrails and even walking surfaces and heavy doors.
David Fazio: Furthermore, mobility impaired people rely on information such as slope of path, flow covering, manual or automatic opening of doors or accessibility of restrooms.
David Fazio: Visually impaired people also require structural information such as handrails and wayfinding information.
David Fazio: And they can experience barriers and complex and confusing buildings or buildings with bad lighting conditions, moreover, information about the availability and location of Braille signs and tactile paving is helpful.
In addition, it is important to understand that people with disabilities have different requirements for planning of a trip and its implementation.
The diverse information need is represented in table one. You can see, for example, that information about the type of doors or the location of a floor plan and more important for people with visual impairments if they are within a building.
A problem, however, is that no common approach to collect and make information about physical accessibility of buildings available for different user groups and for all parts of the travel chain exists currently
Therefore, collecting those information is time consuming, or even not possible. It requires users to know where they can request their required information.
Accessible maps for the indoors can be a solution, but they must represent sufficient data about physical accessibility and they must be accessible for diverse users and contexts.
Before being able to present accessible maps to people with disabilities, it is, of course, necessary to have a good databases of indoor maps.
Currently, there are no widely accepted open standards for the expression of accessibility information in indoor maps and there's a lack of methods to assess if Indoor Maps comply with the requirements of people with disabilities.
In terms of orientation and indoor navigation. In the scope of the accessible maps project, we therefore analyzed the quantity and quality of indoor maps exemplary for OpenStreetMap, as it is one of the most successful volunteer geographic information projects.
To analyze the quantity and quality of existing indoor maps in OSM we use the overpass API.
And the used request for the API were formed based on tags specific for the mapping of indoor areas with the simple indoor tagging schema of OSM, which is the currently chosen standard schema for indoor mapping in the OSM community.
The bare minimum of needed tags for an working indoor map in OSM are the mid level and max level tag on the building polygon or the building relation
And the level tag on points of interest inside the building. Furthermore, the four basic indoor elements room, area, wall and corridor can be used to model the floor plan of the building.
As a first analysis of the state of indoor maps. We looked at four major European cities, Berlin, Rome, Vienna and Paris and two main statements can be derived from the collected data.
Firstly, for all European cities, there's a strong inbalance between the number of objects marked as buildings and the number of objects mark to be in an indoor environment with the 'indoor yes' key value pair.
This indicates that the number of maps for indoor environments is sparse, regardless of the used indoor tagging schema.
Secondly, even though, SIT(Simple Indoor Tagging) is the tagging schema currently chosen for indoor mapping by the OSM community only a small percentage of objects have SIT associated tags.
And on the left hand side. Here you can see an example of the discrepancy between the number of buildings that have an SIT related tag and the number of buildings that are completely mapped using SIT
The quality of maps indoor geospecial information in regards to accessibility is of utter importance when analyzing how existing Indoor Maps in OSM suit the requirements of people with disabilities.
Therefore map buildings with further analyzed in regards to their consistency and used indoor tags their completeness of provided in geospatial information
And mapped accessibility specific features such as elevators, ramps, provided Braille signs and tactile pavings. On average only 6.75 buildings per city met the minimal SIT requirements, and on average, only one building per city met the requirements of SIT completeness.
And the complete data set, only four buildings included mapped accessibility features for mobility impaired people such as ramps and elevators and none of the analyzed cities have buildings with mapped accessibility features for visually impaired people such as Braille or tactile paving.
David Fazio: An example of the fluctuation in in map quality in OSM, can be seen on the left hand side. Both depicted buildings fulfill the minimal SIT requirements, however, only the upper map has sufficient information to be suitable for indoor navigation purposes for people with disabilities.
Let us now briefly talk about accessible representations of indoor maps.
There are many and diverse approaches to make virtual maps accessible but mainly for people with visual impairments.
On the slide you can see three different techniques.
Tactile maps are most frequently used and effective for learning spatial structures and for orientation and mobility training.
On the slide you can see a indoor map that is produced on swell paper.
Another technique, are virtual acoustic maps which convert map items and two different sounds and directly inform the user about the environment.
Microsoft has, for instance, develop the app Soundscape that enables people with visual impairments to hear landmarks around them in 3D.
Another technique are audio tactile maps which is again another technique that focus on multimodal interaction techniques to augment maps with alternative information.
There are again very different approaches on the slide, you can see a refresh trouble and touch sensitive Braille display with which a blind person can explore a tactile map. Additional alternative Information can be received via a tap gesture.
There are many more techniques that address the needs of people with visual impairments. The problem is that currently there are no standards on how maps and geographical data should be made accessible for different contexts and diverse user needs.
So we know less about how people with impairments in the upper body can interact with maps or how maps can be simplified for people with mild or severe a cognitive impairments.
Several key challenges can be derived from the analysis of the state of the art of accessible indoor maps for people with impairments and from the analysis of the requirements of the different targeted user groups.
Firstly, there's currently a low coverage of indoor maps and indoor schemas are inconsistently and incorrectly applied.
Specifically information on accessibility for indoor areas is not available for most public buildings and there's a lack of standardization for the accessibility domain.
Secondly, the data collection process for indoor accessibility information is quite tedious. The required level of detail of indoor information is too high to achieve with traditional mapping methods.
Commercial digital platforms focus mostly on the mapping of points of interest, instead of mapping of detailed geospatial information.
Currently there's a lack of knowledge concerning the information needs of people with disabilities in the mapping community.
While accessibility projects do exist in the volunteer geographic information community for the outdoors similar projects are needed for indoor environments.
And lastly, people with disabilities are a diverse user group with varying sensory, physical, and cognitive abilities that can be two different accessibility challenges with digital maps.
To tackle those challenges we propose the following possible solutions for the collection and representation of accessibility information for indoor areas.
To tackle the challenge of the insufficient prevalence of accessible indoor geospatial information.
semi automatic processes for the creation of said information are needed, therefore, in a first step, a vocabulary for the mapping of indoor accessibility features needs to be defined
Furthermore existing maps in the varying schemas for indoor mapping should be transformed to one basis of data.
already existing Indoor Maps need to be analyzed in regards to their quality of accessibility information and therefore corresponding tools are needed.
Finally, semi automatic and crowdsourcing approaches should be used for the collection of accessibility information and the mapping of accessibility features in indoor areas.
And based on the collected information accessible and individualized representations of indoor maps should be generated and you can see different examples of possible outputs on the right hand side.
Finally, we would like to say that the development of Indoor Maps is still in the early stages. It is expected that the market will grow significantly in the next years due to an increased demand from location based service providers.
Who will take a more economically motivated approach such as considering merely points of interests, instead of mapping accessibility related aspects.
Therefore, we believe that it is currently a very good time to consider the aforementioned challenges properly.
And to take accessibility into account at an early stage and the development of standards for web based maps and not as an afterthought, as it is usually applied.
Our contributions to this area are dedicated user research for mobility in unknown buildings in the accessible maps project and beyond.
Software to significantly improve the coverage of indoor maps and solutions for barrier free map representations for different contexts of use. So we would love to get in touch with you for futher collaborations and contributions to this topic.
And with that, I would like to thank you all for your attention, and I wish you a pleasant day.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: That was Julian Striegl on the recording, his colleague Claudia Loitsch  is with us here today. And as always, Keep
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: posting your questions in the Gitter or Discourse and we'll try and continue the discussion beyond here. I'd now like to ask our members of the
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Panel to join us. I think that we are still missing someone, I haven't had any response from Lisa Seeman, so I hope she is well, and just having internet difficulties we will do our best without her.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: So our next topic of the day is continuing along this theme of accessibility.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Maps helping with accessibility in the real world.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: The panelists are members of the
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: cognitive and learning disabilities accessibility Task Force, otherwise known as Coga, so I'm going to let each panelist quickly introduce themselves.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Let's go across on my screen, John Kirkwood?
John Kirkwood: Yes. Hello. Can you hear me.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: We can, you're a little quiet.
255'
John Kirkwood: Okay. Is that any better.
John Kirkwood: Okay, distance from mic. Okay. Hi, my name is John Kirkwood I'm on the cognitive accessibility task force of the W3C. I'm very interested in this topic as well because I was the
John Kirkwood: Advisory Committee representative for the New York City Department of Education.
John Kirkwood: For the W3C and I was involved with making all their sites for their various schools, 1700 schools, accessible to people with disabilities in particular their websites, but I also sat on
John Kirkwood: Their building accessible, accessibility board and we needed to make every one of their schools accessible to people with disabilities, which includes of course wayfinding
John Kirkwood: Through every school and incorporates all the different types of disabilities that people have. So if one has a disability due to triggering from lighting
John Kirkwood: They would need to be able to have a map for them in order to make it through the school without getting triggered by these lights so
John Kirkwood: The former speaker talking about standardization of indoor mapping and then bringing that to the larger scale,
John Kirkwood: would optimize the processes needed for especially a large school system like the city of New York
John Kirkwood: To make all its sites accessible to people with disabilities, independent of their accessibility needs. Andd I sit on the cognitive accessibility Task Force and W3C with other panelists here
John Kirkwood: talking and trying to figure out how to standardize around web accessibility for people that might have memory issues, queuing issues, sequencing issues, age related issues, that would that would affect
John Kirkwood: Their ability to navigate
John Kirkwood: Due to
John Kirkwood: Occipital lobe or parietal lobe issues with their brain function. So this is all very fun, interesting to me, I'm lucky to join the other panel members on the cognitive accessibility task force here to discuss this.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Thank you John. Okay. Continuing on to John Rochford. Can you give us a brief intro?
John Rochford: Yes, absolutely. So I've been interested in way sfinding for quite some time and the background material that Amelia posted to the conference agenda page, it has two
John Rochford: Documents. One is an issue paper about indoor wayfinding for people with cognitive disabilities and I'm the primary author of that.
John Rochford: And it also has my collection of wayfinding technologies that I've been keeping it updated for years, both indoor and outdoor so I i I'm going to be adding to that collection all these wonderful resources that I've learned about in the past couple hours and I totally agree with John
John Rochford: That
John Rochford: Most of the what I loved about what I heard was that
John Rochford: You know, the focus on everybody, including people with cognitive disabilities. Many people with cognitive disabilities also have physical disabilities. So it's important to us too
John Rochford: But we have some unique needs. So an example of that is that is people with dyslexia, for instance, have difficulty with left and right.
John Rochford: They confuse them often and so directions that say take a left down the stairs, take a right, that's going to confuse them.
John Rochford: And another one is along their routes, if they get interrupted. They have difficulty reestablishing the route. So if their supervisor says, hey, I want to talk to you about X and then they have to go back to their, their work route. It's difficult.
John Rochford: So that's really all I have to say, and I'm,
John Rochford: That's as brief as I can be.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay, David, you want to give us a quick introduction?
David Fazio: Sure. So just like everyone else. I'm an invited expert to the cognitive assessment Task Force. I'm also a survivor of traumatic brain injury. When I was 13 I had a
David Fazio: hemorrhagic stroke that size of a softball my right parietal lobe that me blind, and left half of each eye cognitively impaired and completely paralyzed and left half of my body.
David Fazio: I founded a company by the name of Helix Opportunity funded by our nation's vocational rehabilitation system and we focus on user experience and inclusive design consulting
David Fazio: With an expertise in the areas of neuropsychological and cognitive design. So, of course, this is really, really
David Fazio: Interesting to me and an important aspect of what we do is user research on trying to figure out different ways to implement cognitive accessibility and design strategies so that people don't have these kinds of issues that John and John have both
David Fazio: Discussed. And, leave it at that. That's brief enough.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay, so you're all kind of touched on this in different ways, but
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Not everyone here is an accessibility expert. I think most people understand
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: When we talk about wheelchair accessibility and ramps and why that is relevant to maps. Can we give a quick overview of what you mean by cognitive is accessibility and how it is related to maps and web maps in particular.
David Fazio: Absolutely. Um, I can start off just talking about three things I posted in the chat earlier attention, memory and perception. These are super important because
David Fazio: When you're going about your daily life been going through an environment, you get used to the environment that you're in.
David Fazio: And once you get used to the environment that you're in, you start perceiving things going around you going on around you.
David Fazio: You're still, you're still aware of them. Your body's still sensing these things but you stop actually perceiving them and noticing that there there.
David Fazio: What we're talking about, there's two different kinds of memory: recall and recognition.
David Fazio: When we talk about maps, we're talking about recognition, recognizing where you've been, where you're going, how to get there and how to get back
David Fazio: If you're on your path and you basically tuned up the world around you because you're used to the environment that you're in. Everything seems kind of similar.
David Fazio: And nothing catches your attention to let you know that it's a key marker that you need to pay attention to so you can find your way back
David Fazio: You're going to get lost. And the same thing goes for when you're going somewhere. If you don't know where to turn because something doesn't grab your attention.
David Fazio: And in order to grab your attention, these, these cues is what they're called. They can be audio cues or visual cues. They have to be what's called salient
David Fazio: S-A-L-I-E-N-T. Salience is very, it's very organic, and it's very unique to each person, which is why user research is so important.
David Fazio: Salience can be the size of something. It can be the shape of something. It can be the color. It can be the way that it moves.
David Fazio: But if it doesn't have some type of salient prominent properties. It won't catch your attention. You will tune it out and you will miss it.
David Fazio: Also, if you're stressed in this environment while you're going through it, you're going to miss these cues also. Because what happens is stress blocks your brain from producing the cells necessary to create new memories. So as you're
David Fazio: Reading a map in an environment, your short term memory is kicking off, connecting one.to another to another to another.
David Fazio: Light. If you're stressed out and your brains on creating those memories for the short term or the cells for the short term memories, you're going to, you're never going to make it.
David Fazio: You're never going to have that connection from point A to point B to point C. So that's why the map experience must be seamless and must not be stressful and amongst the, cogent and coherence for people
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay, um. Do either of the Johns want to jump in and talk about how that experience in how the brain works in real life, relates to the experience of the map itself, and what can make a map
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: widget or visual map or whatever.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Better for those
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Types of comprehension.
John Kirkwood: I'll attempt a little of that I think David made some very, very good points there and sort of sketching out the needs there. And one thing that
John Kirkwood: I too had a brain injury, and it affected my occipital lobe and parietal lobe, the parietal lobe is the area of your brain that that actually does the mapping and it's the part of the brain that lays down the maps for you. And I found that
John Kirkwood: With my visual deficits and this particular issue with my parietal lobe. I was not able to essentially as David said, remember sort of left or left or right, you know, into and that that I couldn't couldn't do that from memory, but I use cues.
John Kirkwood: Just like I would use, walking through a hospital when I was recovering, and I my cue would be in particular a painting on the wall.
John Kirkwood: And I knew. Hey, I might not know which direction I need to go. I might not be able to lay down a map in my head, but I knew that once I got to that I needed to walk towards that painting.
John Kirkwood: And once I got to that painting. I would look for the next cue.
John Kirkwood: And I could go from that cue of memories, like, oh, I have, once I get to that made that painting, I looked and I saw the elevators, like, ah,
John Kirkwood: That's where now. Now I've made it. However, I wasn't able to put that map in my mind I but I was able to follow that story or have the breadcrumbs and some people will work by stories with their mapping and some people might do it through internal
John Kirkwood: mapping out in their, in their minds eye, where they are in placement on a map. So the storytelling, the salience of that that and the
John Kirkwood: Ability to remember things and cue oneself. But by having that sort of impact of the story, there's a way that that can assist people with mapping sometimes or navigating
John Rochford: So this is John Rochford, John Kirkwood there's something about you that the left right vision, could you explain that, please. I think it's really
John Kirkwood: Yeah, to be very specific and this is similar to David what as well. I think it's Homonymous Hemianopsia, which is half vision in both eyes.
John Kirkwood: So I can see to the right, I look at someone's face, as I'm looking at your faces on video right now. And if I look at John Rochford's face.
John Kirkwood: And I look at his left eye, I cannot see his right eye. So thinking about that and how to navigate through the room. We walked through one room.
John Kirkwood: And then you see a door and you walk through the other. And now you have to return to the table you were sitting at and you've seen on that path. You've seen planter and a window, but on the return path you're seeing a classroom with tables and and uh
John Kirkwood: You know,
John Kirkwood: A water fountain and an exit sign which is nothing that you've seen going the other direction.
John Kirkwood: So the idea of cueing and mapping and trying to really learn how to spatially navigate and to put that into memory so that one can functionally exist that, as John was asking there, was specific to the the visual center and the mapping area of the brain.
David Fazio: Can I add something to that? So, you know, this is, this is something that is true for all people, but for people with cognitive disabilities.
David Fazio: We can have lapses in time where we blink and we don't realize how long
David Fazio: How much time has passed, so you know when you when you're coming back to an environment and you don't recognize where you are and you thought you were where you needed to be
David Fazio: It can really bring on a lot of anxiety, a lot of stress and really freak you out.
David Fazio: And this again goes to the how the stress can create memories and stuff like that. And that just completely throws everything off.
David Fazio: And I remember times when I was 13 years I was, I was 14 years old. I was 13 when my brain hemorrhage, but we had just moved to a new neighborhood.
David Fazio: And the houses were just being built up and all this kind of stuff. And I was leaving the house walking around the neighborhood. I'm new, I'm a new kid trying to find new friends to make stuff like that. I would get lost for hours.
David Fazio: I couldn't recognize the streets, the houses or whatever to find my way back, and I would freak out. I would almost like being tears.
David Fazio: Not knowing what to do. And I mean, I can't tell people where, where I live, because I'm new to the neighborhood. I don't know.
David Fazio: Whether I can remember my street name you know so and that's that's for people with cognitive disabilities but even for people without cognitive disabilities.
David Fazio: The same situation happens if you're on your way to a job interview or you're on your way out to a date or somewhere important and you get and you can't figure out where you are because you can't recognize the cues and stuff like that. It can freak you out.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay, um, that actually leads into my next question. So I think you've effectively convince people that for someone who's had a traumatic brain injury.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Navigation can be incredibly difficult but for people who are building a Web Map, there's probably some question about how big an audience that is and
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Is it really effective for them to think about it in
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Every map they make or is that something that people with accessibility needs will need special software and
David Fazio: Yeah.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: What is
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: The broader interest here or how
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Can that connection be made.
John Kirkwood: So how
John Kirkwood: Could I start with that one really quick?
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Go ahead.
John Kirkwood: John. Yeah. One thing the way to really think about globalizing that is everyone
John Kirkwood: At some point in their life, their parietal lobe will start decreasing in its functionality and in when you're aging as one of the things that that does go is how to spatially navigate
John Kirkwood: And we will all have this at one point and we will need help and technology as we're aging will help us more and more
John Kirkwood: And as as technology meets us as we all age. These things will be things that we will be completely dependent on as we're dependent on our Google Maps when we're driving
John Kirkwood: We're going to be dependent on the indoor maps to make it through hospitals or rehab facilities in the or aging facilities or independent living for anyone. So that's one one point.
David Fazio: I have a number for you too. 300 million people will have dementia by 2050. 300 million around the world.
David Fazio: That's a lot of people with cognitive disabilities. So if you're looking just for a number about what the
David Fazio: That that's just one subset of disability. Then you've got people with developmental disabilities, people with brain injuries from the military, from just regular life all those different kinds of things. And like John said, plus it's just
David Fazio: Everybody in general as we degrade as we age, so that it's important. And think about this, when you're driving around the city looking for a place
David Fazio: You know, a building or an event or a venue. It's really dangerous to have to be looking at a map and focus and focus all of your cognitive resources.
David Fazio: On trying to identify where you're going, as opposed to watching the road. Right. So there's a huge market opportunity and implications for this.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Um,
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay. So, assuming you convinced everyone that making maps better for cognitive accessibility is a necessity. What does that actually look like at the software level, at the geospatial data level.
John Kirkwood: Well, I'll start with that one. Delivering the right information at the right time.
John Kirkwood: So if, if you, you might be someone that remember seven steps and directions. And you can say, Okay, I just need to look at this once, and I'm, I'm, I'm fine.
John Kirkwood: But you might prefer to have your directions repeated to you when you are 200 meters from your next turn, or maybe you want it half a mile from your next turn.
John Kirkwood: The customization of how information is delivered to you, dependent on what your functional memory needs are, is would make it more accessible and more usable for everyone.
John Kirkwood: And these can be learning, there can be a feedback loop in your own mapping programs from your Google Maps to where you're driving when you ask for the directions more often.
John Kirkwood: Or from your maps and indoor wayfinding within a hospital so that your, your information is delivered to you in the way that you need it in accordance with your memory functioning that makes it a better user experience for everyone.
John Kirkwood: Okay.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Any other comments on how map software can be better.
David Fazio: I'll also say one thing, is that a lot of user research needs to be done, including people with cognitive disabilities and without
David Fazio: People with cognitive disabilities are one of the least
David Fazio: We're one of the neglected demographics when it comes to not just accessibility, but also in user research
David Fazio: Because we're perceived as not really being active in the in the economy, you know, so
David Fazio: A lot of user research needs to be done to actually flesh out what can help and benefit people with cognitive dissonance in terms of, you know, mapping and stuff like that and
David Fazio: Another number for you is $19 trillion in household earnings is how much people in the baby boomer generation are worth.
David Fazio: You know, if they're going to be out there spending money and stuff like this. We need to know how to help them best navigate their environment to get to the places to spend their money.
David Fazio: And that's just in, you know, G20 economies. So, you know, user research is really important. We don't have enough data.
John Rochford: That is what John and David are saying
John Rochford: All the efforts that we've heard about today, everybody must involve people with disabilities and the development of these technologies, because if you do not, they will fail. And they will fail for everyone.
John Rochford: And it's not just people with disabilities. It's all kinds of populations of people
John Rochford: Who have low literacy, people can't read directions, for example, and are enormous populations of people
John Rochford: Like non native language speakers. So if you've got your, your directions in English or you are relying upon alerts to represent like
John Rochford: whether the
John Rochford: Place is successful or not, and green and red, you know, green is good
John Rochford: Accessibility, red is bad. That means different things in different cultures. So my pitch to everybody is
John Rochford: That all this technology we're talking about, talking about has to be
John Rochford: Effort if it's going to be successful.
David Fazio: Providing salient cues is super important. But again, salience means different things to different people, which is why the user research is so important. So, I mean, I can't stress that enough. We need, we needed to a lot of research.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay, so user testing customization and,
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: focus on how people actually recognize things in the real world.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Very quickly, we're gonna wrap this up. But I have a question from the audience. What is the room for web standards in achieving these goals. Can we standardize it or is it just a matter of best software development practice.
David Fazio: We're working on it. That's what we have the task force.
David Fazio: We just published a content, guide for content usable, a guide for making content usable for people with cognitive and learning disabilities. It's published as a W3C note, I want to say, but you can find it online.
David Fazio: That should be pretty helpful to a lot of people. It's a good starting point. It's design best practices and information about what people cognitive disabilities experience. So yeah, we're working on standardizing
John Rochford: It's right on the web accessibility information page on the W3C
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: We will find that link and add it to the chat. Any final comments as we wrap up the panel.
John Rochford: It's been my honor and privilege.
John Rochford: I really appreciate the opoprtunity, thanks.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Well, thank you for joining us. It is good to have these perspectives on
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: How software and web maps can actually impact people's lives.
John Rochford: I'm thanking you for your expert moderation.
John Rochford: Thanks very much.
John Kirkwood: But would also like
John Kirkwood: We on on the cognitive accessibility task force. This is something that we very much welcome input from
John Kirkwood: From professionals or people interested in the field, because it is a very large area. And as you take the layers of the onion off
John Kirkwood: I think we all realize that the scale is very large and we need we need help and expertise around that. The more that we can get more involvement we can get from people, we welcome it with open arms.
David Fazio: We wish we had more concrete and like you know technical specs to give you that what you could implement but that's, you know, where, where it's lacking. We need more collaboration.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Mm hmm.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Yeah yeah needs more research is often the conclusion.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Well, thank you, we're going to wrap up the panel and I'm gonna immediately change gears to our second theme of the night, because we are running a little behind schedule.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Now.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Our remaining talks are on the general theme of can we improve map data web servers and map data formats to make them better for web use. And I'm going to start with a pre recorded presentation by Nicolas Rafael Palomino.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: So, Nicolas is a researcher studying on wireless telecommunications and unified telecommunications, with a focus on geo location and geospatial data.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: And his presentation is on advanced analytics software project for geospatial data. Can somebody please let me know that you're seeing the video player.
Peter Rushforth: Yes, we are.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: And the Zoom overlay is right on top of the play button. There we go.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: Hi, as mentioned in this page. My name is Nicolas Rafael Palomino. In this presentation will be talking about advanced analytics for geospatial data.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: We'll be discussing why and how harnessing big data with complex mechanisms is essential to be implemented by the tech industry to keep their place as we move forward to the edge.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: We will start the discussion with the interactive maps widgets and its infrastructure and I will explain why advanced analytics are important to be harnessed and implemented in the digital cloud connected infrastructure.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: So here we can see some basic maps widget we could interact with. The picture of the map, you're looking at is showing downtown Montreal as a basic potential map format.
Peter Rushforth: What we are trying to do here is to integrate new technologies, including Advanced Computing, big data analytics and artificial intelligence to set up the advanced analytics.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: That will autonomously or semi autonomously examine data or content using sophisticated techniques and tools, typically beyond those of traditional business intelligence, to discover deeper insights
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: make predictions or generating real time data to bring life to the Internet of Things.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: In the next page, We have bringing life to the Internet of Things, which will be one, if not the most important constituent of the whole IT system.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: In the most small rectangle, you can see the experience of the user that is shaped by the advanced analytics, and that experience will be the customer or individual interacting with the whole platform.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: This part is autonomous, and best suited to serve the individual customer or person using the services. This will be done through the system of advanced analytics.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: This system will be leveraged by artificial intelligence, machine learning
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: And advanced analytics to give a more in context, predictive and pervasive geospatial data available to the persons using the navigating tool and all that will be running on the cloud connected IoT devices.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: Next up, we have the values that are unlocked by using this new infrastructure.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: The first point here is the new business models, implementing hybrid IT cloud
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: Or any cloud services to a business under connection systems will redesign the centralized IT infrastructure
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: Because distributing network hubs in locations at the edge offers direct access to customers, partners and other ecosystem participants leading to new business models and business intelligence, and that will bring new business models.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: Second, we have the seamless customer experience, that will be fueled by artificial intelligence, machine learning and advanced analytics that will be running on cloud services.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: This service will enhance many aspects of life, such as the safety and security of whatever transaction is going on, as well as the quality of services that are provided either physical or digital.
Nicolas Rafael Palomino: This optimized responsive value chains will connect in real time and in context, physical and digital materials with different types of computing services and processes in place of eco systems.
Here in the next page. We have the basic uses provided by the interactive maps.
The first point. Here's an interesting concept I experienced myself. Basically, I went to a restaurant during the COVID-19
pandemic and I noticed the restaurant was not providing menus, but instead they told us to scan a little QR code with our phone cameras and that code redirected us to the restaurant menu with a hyperlink.
I think that's a perfect example a service that could be provided
And optimized by using different layers of ecosystems involving intelligent machine, the machine and even to machine communications and different layers of artificial intelligence, machine learning processes and analytics through the cloud interconnectivity infrastructure.
Such technological mechanisms will provide the user a much more adjustable in client centered services.
The second point is retail stores or commercial uses which does not really differs from that restoration system I experienced, but yet are two different system in a way because of the different variables.
The way we want users to generate data is by making them access and interact with any type of data, an IT system that is useful to them and that can be provided by the factory, retail store, or any data that is accessible by location or non location.
Smart factories are defined as flexible and fully connected factories that are able to make use of constant streams of data from operations and production systems.
The amount of possible interactions is endless and creates unprecedented industrial scenarios where items can talk to each other with tools, machines remote computers or workers.
human centered design is an approach to systems design and development that aims to make interactive systems more usable and useful by focusing on their use by operators and their requirements within the collaborative industrial environment.
This approach enhances effectiveness and efficiency, improves even user satisfaction, accessibility, and sustainability and counteracts possible adverse effects of
health, safety and performance.
These systems together with the design principle of the industry 4.0 will connect manufacturers and retail supply chains to a real time and in context live interaction with the merchandise, stock and service availability provided by any retail store at the edge.
The third point is the social uses of such infrastructures. Here we'll explain the facade by which social features will be leveraged to exploit and generate data from users, providers and IT systems.
It is more likely that these type of mechanisms and digital functioning will be exploited through social mobile applications based on geolocation.
We believe that the best way to leverage big data analytics and pushing digitization with these mechanisms is by setting up open map mobile application.
That the user will use to navigate
geospatial data should be allowed to be interacted with from a local or non local point. Privately or publicly, doesn't really matter as long as data symbiosis is achieved in stored for advanced analytics to industry 4.0 designs and architectures.
Public private and individualized services need to be available to achieve maximum capabilities of harnessing big data.
Next point is the 5G, which is fifth generation technology standard for cellular networks.
The implementation of 5G will be a game changer to the use of the systems as a few companies already started providing 5G wireless transmission, but we'll discuss this further in the presentation.
Next we have the commercial systems, components that will bring the industry 4.0 in place.
So first we have the vertical and horizontal integration systems that are key to automation of data transmission and smart factories, stores or any kind of commercial place.
Of course, this systems will be made up of more than only what is written here.
Then we have the CPS system is defined by its processing, storing and communication capabilities that will control more than one physical process.
This system can also enable decentralized data analysis and decision making that will enable real time responses as it is interconnected through the Internet.
Next up we have the big data and data analytics that will help processing and analyzing the huge amount of data generated by the users of the platform and thus bringing predictive data and solving futuristic problems and necessities. Then we have the simulation software.
Process information to model behavior for
future scenarios.
Predict problems, reduce configuration costs and improve quality of services.
But it sure has a limitation in the future.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: But we have different solutions such as funk computing. And of course, we have the cyber security aspect because without security and privacy, nothing will work.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: So this is the key to provide secure and reliable communications, authentication systems to preserve data and avoid any kind of cyber attacks.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: This is crucial to protect national security matters and industrial systems.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Next up we have the social feature by which the geospatial data will be exploited and created, I believe that only of mobile application will be in measured in work such IT systems and infrastructures.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: So basic features would include private user groups, public user groups and individualized user groups so that one can be able to navigate through the system, and have access to the data no matter the location.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Geospatial data and interactive maps widgets should be available, no matter the location of the user using the platform.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: I believe it will also be good to implement different types of social media interconnection for other in app services such as social, public or private transportation using the maps to track and real time movement and interaction with any interactive geospatial data.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Also, we believe that other social media application can be interconnected to this system to achieve a greater data symbiosis.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: A few example for social or private activities or meetings, location routes, messaging and sharing moments.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Also inter connecting with other social media application could leverage and harness valuable data.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Next point was the 5G or the fifth generation technology for wireless telecommunication. The reason why this is here is because the rollout of 5G tech isn't coming
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: There's already a few companies working on implementing such network as a standardized telecommunications networks and 5G will bring enormous changes to the games.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: It will change the data transfer speed by a lot so testing a network and framework as soon as possible to adjust to these changes and opportunities brought by the 5G is also crucial at this moment.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: This will provide customers with a greater network reliability.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: It'll also be a better use when 5G will be integrated to the advanced analytics with artificial intelligence Internet of Things for real time insights and recommendations.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: That will be the future of the next generation of digital industry or commerce with the 5G. Of course, this is merely the potential of what 5G could really do in the industry 4.0
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Next up, we'll be looking at the four principal identified as the integral to industry 4.0. The first one is the interconnection.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: It is the ability of the machines devices, sensors, and people to connect and communicate with each other via the Internet of Things, or internet of people
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Next one we have the information transparency, which is the transparency afforded by industry 4.0 technology providers, operators with comprehensive information to inform decisions.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: interconnectivity allows operators to collect immense amounts of data and information from all points in the manufacturing process, identify key areas that can benefit from improvement to increase functionality.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Then the technical assistance that will assist humans in decision making on problem solving.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: And the ability to help humans with some difficult and unsafe tasks. And finally, the decentralized decision, which is the ability of cyber physical systems to make decisions on their own and to perform their tasks as autonomously as possible.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Finally, here in the conclusion, I'd like to discuss about the ethics behind such projects and craft.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Well, first of all, we're in an epic where every single polarity is shifting around us, and so, is how the technology is used from now on.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: I think it's really important to understand the laws and work by its code of ethics because this kind of IT system will shape a certain type of social behaviors globally from this point.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: And will also methodically frame different types of procedure as the technology is applied, and this is barely what the system can do
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Also, ensuring the safety and security of such value systems, as a matter of national security. No matter what society will be using such technology.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: Also, I think it's the perfect time to develop share public data sets and environments for artificial intelligence training and testing because we're just starting moving into this new era of technology and the a lot of advancement are to be made.
Nicolas Rafael Palamino: And finally, we need to expand, whether public or private partnerships arrangements, to accelerate advances in artificial intelligence implementation for global use. Thanks for listening to my presentation.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Can people hear me?
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Okay. Zoom is saying you can't. But, uh,
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: I'm glad you can.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: So that was Nicolas Rafael Palomino or his computer helping him with the English pronunciation, I guess, something like that. Nicolas is not here right now, it's a little too early for him, but he has been active in the chat before. So definitely leave your questions and
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: I'm sure he will follow up. If
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Any of those grand ideas struck your fancy our next talk upk, Danielle Dupuy
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Will be speaking on embedding the rendering and behavior configuration in map data. So, Danielle is a geographer with the US Geological Survey.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Who works with the California Water science centers groundwater ambient monitoring and assessment program, an important goal of that program is to increase the availability of quality information to the public and with that goal. Daniel has been working on.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Building web mapping with a templated approach. So, Danielle. I'll let you take away
Danielle Dupuy: Okay. Hi. Um, I recorded my presentation. So I'm gonna just play it because it was a little late. I don't trust my brain at this hour.
Amelia Bellamy Royds: This is great.
Danielle Dupuy: So let me know if
Danielle Dupuy: They can see everything. And I thought, audio will go through
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: I can see it.
Danielle Dupuy: Okay.
Danielle Dupuy: Today I'm going to be sharing something that our team has been doing and helping to streamline our map development process. We've been including some maps
Danielle Dupuy: Rendering and behavior components indoor map data rather than included into the HTML or JavaScript directly
Danielle Dupuy: So this concept itself is pretty simple. But this exact approach is something that I haven't seen talked about or seen any examples online.
Danielle Dupuy: So it's something new to you that you find useful. And maybe you can implement into your own maps and before we go any further, I just want to introduce you to acknowledge my colleague, Dan. He's an IT specialist with the USGS's
Danielle Dupuy: Western Ecological Research Center, and he was the web developer that helped our department with its maps before I joined the team last year. And so this approach that I'm going to be talking about today was something that he actually came up with and implemented into our workflow.
So I'm going to be kind of going over why we started doing this and what benefits we've been seen and how we found it useful. And then I'll go over some examples of how we've been implementing this and show you some code of what we've been doing
So as I said before, Dan was the one who started implementing this, and he was doing this before I joined the team. And part of the reason was because
He's part of our center's web development team and he wasn't, his full time wasn't to be working on our smaller team's maps, and he wasn't really intimately familiar with the data that he's been asked to disply
So this was kind of his way of allowing the scientists to author the data and who wanted these maps created to still have some control over some of the design aspects and
Be able to make tweaks to the map appearance themselves. And so, you know, it allowed people to who don't have the knowledge or the access to directly edit the map.
To kind of play around with color renderings move items around and the legend on their own and it worked well with our system because these changes.
That the scientists could make in the database where they had access to, will then be immediately reflected on to our live staging sites. So if they wanted to change color, they can see it
Instantly, you know, on the map and make changes and kind of in turn, this allowed our scientists to have control of this these aspects, without having to put in request to our developer
Seen in our case, Dan's working on many different projects and could only be working on stuff for our smaller team for, you know, limited amount of time. So this kind of took off some of the burden off of him and allowed our scientists to just make these changes on their own.
And when I joined the team a year ago, my role was kind of bridging the gap between the scientists and the web developers, I'm
Pretty much a GIS person and I work on all aspects of this data. So I'm definitely much more familiar it with than Dan was
So I kind of thought that maybe I would be using this approach less because I kind of had more knowledge and control over the maps
And the way that we were presenting the data. But in reality, I've actually expanded how we've used to this. And I'm using it more and I still find it very useful.
I found that I can kind of have more control over some aspects of the map rendering with writing less code or like traditionally, I would have to write a bunch of if statements to say
Apply colors. Based on a study type for for points that are being displayed, but using this approach, I can do all that with one fell swoop.
Danielle Dupuy: You know, using the color information that you store with the data that you're feeding into the site.
And you know, I just simply find it easier to make changes to these database values than having to go into the map code.
It's kind of, you know, like, go find and replace but I just kind of find it easier to be looking at it in a table and it's just a much easier workflow for me.
And then, you know, I think this kind of approach kind of opens up the door, as a way to kind of almost automate or kind of greatly reduce the effort needed to create new maps.
Where I see it is less unique items that you put into your app code, the easier it is to reuse that code for a new map that has a similar structure.
One of the cool things about this approach is that the possibilities are endless.
So here's some examples, things that we've been using in our maps, but it's by no means a finite list. We've even used some of the map data to populate HTML IDs and then use those to render
Checkbox toggles based on the study types present in our data sets. And so, you know, if the map data changes and we no longer have a certain study type, it just won't be implemented into the map, but we don't have to go in and change any HTML code.
I'm going to show you how we use the map data to render the appearance of the site here. So we include in the map data all the information for these points, the colors, the sizes, the shapes.
Even kind of a plane they're drawn onm like the draw order and also the sidebar here on the left, we've used some of the map data to render the toggle boxes and the points displayed here.
We use a SQL server database to store data and then we use stored procedures to serve that data to our .NET sites.
So that's what's going on here in this table. This is kind of where we store the rendering information. We typically store it in a like legend item table.
And here we include all of the unique colors are symbols that would go correspond with our data. So in this map we had these 11 study types and each of them needs to be uniquely identified so we
Changed symbol for each of the study classes and then a unique color for each study pipe and we also included the draw order.
Kind of the pane, the Leaflet be the stories and the Leaflet map. So it was the Leaflet pane which kind of identified which order the layers would be drawn on the map.
So,
Here is an example of the printout of our actual map data, the point data. So it's typical to how you would feed your data into a map, but then we add in
The colors, the each of the symbols, the each of the data points, but get along with the Symbol, Symbol size and the draw order. So here is an example of a web method that we use to read that.
From here I just use an AJAX request to read the data and then I apply the rendering information to the Leaflet marker options.
And by doing it this way. I was able to create are able to add that unique rendering for each of the data types without having to do any if statements. So I was able to do it all in one go. And then I applied these micro options into the points and create a layer.
And then from there, the only kind of if statements that we had to do is because each study ID or each study type
Had to be a unique layer that we can toggle on and off. I just had to apply it to a layer group that I had already created. So this was kind of the only information that I had to hard code which still worked for us, but maybe could be changed in the future.
So here's another example, and this is how I created that left side panel. I did the same thing use an AJAX request to read the data and
Over here, I'm just using that information from the database to populate some of the HTML that's going to go and create a table on the side and kind of create the checkboxes.
It's toggle checkboxes. And then I just insert that into some divs that I had already written into the HTML code of the map.
So this here is the map that we just created, that code got the nice sidebar that was
with the check boxes. But you know, I noticed that the groundwater, because there's so many data points here. It was overwhelming all the other data layers and since it was drawn on
In pane 4, drawn on last it is overwhelming everything else. So it's super easy just to go into the database and just change that pane here to be drawn first.
I was easily able to just change the draw order around on all of the layers and create a much better looking map without having to touch the code at all.
So that's it. It's pretty easy, but it could save our team a bunch of time and if it's used in the right way, I think it can open up the doors for some pretty cool stuff down the line.
Like our team has a lot of data that we want to put into web maps and, you know, I've been working on kind of code that
Can easily be reused to create new maps faster. Usually, you know, our maps show discrete water samples. So for map, map things look pretty simple, just with minor tweaks to address the specific data and the story that needs to be told.
But I think that using this we can kind of get to a point where most of the unique elements can be included in the map data in the database and then we couple that with kind of a generic template.
And we can have a new map up and running in a matter of days as opposed to weeks or months. So, you know,
Hopefully we can kind of get close to an automated system. Maybe it's a little far fetched to be completely, you know, automated and just be pumping out maps every day. But I think this kind of get us closer so thanks for your time and I hope you found this helpful.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Thank you to Danielle, the live one and then recorded one
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Um, I don't think we've started a Discourse page up for the topic, but I definitely think there is lots to say about it and
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: People who are doing similar things or who might even want to convince you to create a JSON-LD schema to standardize this, I don't know, something like that.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: But moving right along, because we
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Are tight for time. Our next presenter is Chris Little
Chris Little: Hi, can you hear me clearly?
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Chris Little, yes, you
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Are coming in, loud and clear and Chris
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Is a professional meteorologist of
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Many years at the Met Office UK and works on standards at both W3C and OGC and
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Chris is going to present us a very brief history of meteorology and cartography, so that we know where we have been, so we know where we can go
Chris Little: Okay, so should I be presenting from my screen or from things been uploaded.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: If you got it, that would be great. Otherwise, I have to find it.
Chris Little: Fine. Okay, no, I've got it, I've just got to find
Chris Little: My Zoom controls share screen. Okay.
Chris Little: Hello.
Chris Little: Do I need permission from you to share the screen.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Oh, you shouldn't?
Chris Little: I've got a share screen, select screen. Remember this decision window screen. Okay. Yeah. Okay, I've got select the window right here. Okay.
Chris Little: What's not working. I
Chris Little: Don't know.
Chris Little: I'm not a Zoom person
Chris Little: Why is it not allowing
Chris Little: Oh, Firefox is stopping me. Drat.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: I've got PDFs. You want me to share and you can just tell me when
Move Ahead. Yep.
Chris Little: Maybe bit tedious because I have a  lot of pictures.
Chris Little: I didn't realize Firefox was so strict
Chris Little: Okay.
Chris Little: Cannot allow permit access to your screen.
Chris Little: Nope, okay. Firefox is just not let me do it.
Chris Little: Okay, so can you just show the PDF
Chris Little: Right next.
Chris Little: To the screen.
Chris Little: So that's the structure of the talk. It's not, okay, it's
Chris Little: Okay, very straightforward. Timeline, next
Chris Little: Okay, this is
Chris Little: 3500 years ago. This is a map for Mesopotamia. It's not the earliest map, though it's not disputed that it is a map. Next.
Chris Little: And all talks about the history of meteorology involve the first documented weather forecast. This is Noah,
Chris Little: It's a mosaic from St. Marks in Venice. And the important thing about this is not that it was a
Chris Little: weather forecast that was accurate. It was a long range weather forecast.
Chris Little: Of the authoritative voice that gave the weather forecast. It's the fact that Noah acted
Chris Little: On the forecast. If you're not going to change your behavior because of the weather forecast. There's no point having a weather forecast. Next slide.
Chris Little: And these are the people who didn't listen to forecast and didn't pay attention to it. Right, so
Chris Little: Next,
Chris Little: So meteorology starts becoming documented about two and a half thousand years ago, 500BC with Aristotle.
Chris Little: He wrote a document called Meteorologica.
Chris Little: From word and meteors, meteors being things you see in the sky.
And
Chris Little: It the document came down to us via the Arabic actually, it was translated into Arabic for Arabic scholars and then got translated back into Latin after the fall of Constantinople and this is
Chris Little: Aristotle's worldview.
Chris Little: He lived in a temperate blue zone on the sphere. It was hot as you went south, because you got close to the sun. It's cold at the north. And from arguments of symmetry there must be a temperate and a cold zone at the bottom, which is actually rather good actually for 500BC. Next.
Chris Little: And then cartography, meteorology sort stayed where it was. Aristotle was taken as
Chris Little: As the word for a few thousand years but cartography improved. This is an Arabic chart. Don't try to read Arabic as it's upside down because I put north at the top, as they preferred to put south at the top. Next.
Chris Little: And then we have
Chris Little: This one from the Byzantine Empire and just built on Ptolemy's, you know the Egyptian,
Chris Little: His map and you can see we start to get we've got latitude, longitude lines I skipped about an hour's talk with of cartography and its history. Missed out all of the Chinese maps, where in 200AD they were putting grids and scales on their maps so you could measure distances.
Chris Little: We've gotten distances on here. Next.
Chris Little: And then all change with this guy. This guy is Mercator, Gerardus Mercator. Next.
Chris Little: And of course he produced the Mercator map. And the important thing about this, this is only 60 years after Columbus went to America and they more or less got the shape of america right after 60 years
Chris Little: And the important thing about the map, of course, is if you sail on a constant bearing with your compass, you follow a straight line on the map. And it made global
Chris Little: Navigation, much, much easier. Next, and now we get to when meteorology starts paying attention. And again, I've missed out about an hour's worth of talk on
Chris Little: The history of meteorology and enlightenment and
Chris Little: Arising from the Renaissance and everybody's wish to measure everything you know all the stuff about Boyle and Hooke and inventing thermometers and Torricelli inventing his barometer. This is Edmond Halley, the Astronomer Royal of the
Chris Little: Comet fame. But before we made this fame over the comet, He said, like ship called Paramour across the Atlantic as a young man, and came back and published the next map.
Chris Little: So this is probably the first weather map, it's of trade winds, and what's interesting here is we've now got accurate map. And we've got arrows on it.
Chris Little: Showing direction and speed because big strong winds, longer arrows. That's a key point. And again, I'm going to miss out about an hour's worth of talk on scientific visualization and and which is generally driven by the French. Next.
Chris Little: But this guy. You may have heard of called Lambert
Chris Little: Swiss mathematician, polymath, went to school with Gauss and he suggested you should be plotting the weather on maps to figure out what's going on next.
Chris Little: And invented some weather symbols.
Chris Little: And actually, that's pretty good, actually, they've
Chris Little: Kept continuity with some of the symbols for a long time. Next.
Chris Little: And the French came in with just a pure
Chris Little: Orography, and we know about 1700, and
Chris Little: Someone invented the contour map before then it's just hashing and this is the quantitative contour map that first occurred. I've left in a lot of
Chris Little: notes in the original PowerPoint, that has all this detail and so I'll post that later, might solve the problem of the slides, but now, this guy is the most famous scientist at the Brits have never heard of, that's a self portrait by him and that of course is Humbold, next map.
Chris Little: He went, he had some adventures voyages as a young man, and more self single handedly invented geography
Chris Little: And climatology, next map.
Chris Little: And cause to be published this map showing isotherms, lines of equal temperature
Chris Little: And next
Chris Little: And then towards the end of the
Chris Little: 18th century, a guy called Brandes, who published a weather map.
Chris Little: This is the weather for the date of 6th of March, 1783. The main problem is, he took 30 years to produce it.
Chris Little: Actually published in 1816. and unfortunately I haven't been able to find an image of what he looked like. So that's the first daily weather map. It's an optic weather map, took 30 years next
Chris Little: Now things get interesting. You all know who this is, this is Admiral Beaufort, chief Hydrographer. And of course,
Chris Little: Responsible for a large chunk, a large part of British Navy and he invented the weather code. Next.
Chris Little: So that all the ships captain's writing their logs and wanted to record that it was foggy and rainy, and windy, just used the code, and it was standardized across all the Navy and next slide.
Chris Little: It also standardized how to record the wind speed, which is interesting because this is using qualitative information to give a quantitative answer. and of course that is still used in a slight variation to this day. And the other thing that
Chris Little: Admiral Beaufort did is he sent the next person
Chris Little: On the voyage. And that's Fitzroy
Chris Little: Next,
Chris Little: Fitzroy went on that journey for three years around the world mapping the oceans, because they were, you know, hazards to shipping if we don't know where the reefs are
Chris Little: Next.
Chris Little: And of course, he took a young scientists within this guy who in the next slide, you'll recognize him. Darwin.
Chris Little: Next,
Chris Little: When Fitzroy, came back he eventually became vice admiral. He set up the Meteorological Service in the UK. He was the official chief meteorological statist.
Chris Little: And he had the bright idea, you could actually predict the weather. He didn't like the idea of using the word prediction. Prediction, he thought was a bit too precise. So he called it forecasting he invented the word forecasting.
Chris Little: Forecasting gave this idea of slightly less accurate than a prediction.
Chris Little: Next.
Chris Little: Over in the US. This is Lieutenant Maury in the US Navy. He was no longer active service, damaged his leg. He collected a lot of information from sailors and he produced atlases to make sailing safer. Next slide. He produced the first oceanographic
Chris Little: [inaudible] of the Atlantic. The first map of an ocean basin. Right. And he also no, go back again just back to Maury. He was the first person to he caused an international conference to be held in Brussels in 1853 to standardize the data.
Chris Little: And 11 countries attended, and they all agreed on the standard form for measuring data from ships at sea.
Chris Little: And so, meteorologists, we've been used to using interoperable data and services for at least 150 years
Chris Little: Next slide.
Chris Little: This is Galton, a scientist who caught Fitzroy to be defunded because he didn't like his forecasting because there's no science in it.
Chris Little: It was just seat of the pants experience, saying, you know, west wind is followed by Northwest wind, no science at all. He's very eminent scientists, but a bit out of favor because invented eugenics.
Chris Little: But he invented correlation. He discovers fingerprints and he did twin studies and invented the term anticyclone. Next slide. And he produced some maps.
Chris Little: So here's a map of the weather on the
Chris Little: January 1861, and he's kind of constrained by type setting. So he had some type made, and the printer had to set them, and print the document. Next slide. And of course, if he didn't have observations, but he had kind of coverage, in the mapping terminology, a field.
Chris Little: Not very effective. But it's what best he could do with printing. Next, and he also collected the weather observations by train
Chris Little: But telegraph was coming into effect as well, electric telegraph, not optical telegraph. And orthography was invented, lithography allowed you to draw pictures on stone, rotary lithography became widespread use in the 1850s-1860s. So newspapers could print pictures.
Chris Little: And so then you start getting daily weather maps, and they're still usable, isobars, they got arrows.
Chris Little: And there's been a daily weather the map for the UK every day since. Next.
Chris Little: Now, that's kind of history, and meteorology is not a science. So next slide, this all changed 120 years ago. This is Vilhelm Bjerknes, next.
Chris Little: He wrote down the equations of the motions of the atmosphere. Next, don't worry about them. They're tough.
Chris Little: And they were first solved by hand by Lewis Fry Richardson, this guy's quaker, worked as an ambulance in the First World War. He spent six weeks solving those equations. Next slide.
Chris Little: On this four by four grid, at four levels and atmosphere. He had level, he had information on the
Chris Little: Depth of the atmosphere from artillery soundings by balloon from first World War.
Chris Little: So on this four by four grid, he did a calculation to six weeks. Next slide.
Chris Little: He used this hand calculator, took him six weeks for a six hour forecast.
Chris Little: Which is bit better than 30 days, uh, 30 years to produce a weather forecast
Chris Little: Unfortunately, his weather forecast was completely wrong. Not in just slightly wrong, it was completely wrong wasn't even meteorological
Chris Little: But the important thing was, he published his results in 1922, six years later.
Chris Little: And they didn't know why the equations were wrong, why he got the wrong answer. Next slide.
Chris Little: Then things changed, during,
Chris Little: Next,
Chris Little: Jules Charney,
Chris Little: Child of Russian immigrants, lived in California, brilliant mathematician and very influential in meteorology, next
Chris Little: Figured out what was wrong with Bjerknes's equations. They had sound waves in them, which kind of mucked up the answers. You don't want the whole atmosphere vibrating as a
Chris Little: Very loud sound, you filter those out and you get a bit more meteoroligical next
Chris Little: So von Neumann, Hungarian, decided, next, weather forecasting along with one or two other things we were competing on ENIAC, one of the first computers whole 'nother hours worth of lecture on history of computing and who was first, and who was not first, next
Chris Little: And it did weather forecast on a 270 point grid for North America. It took 24 hours on ENIAC, it took took several weeks to set up a computer.
Chris Little: But ENIAC took 24 hours to do a 24 hour forecast, and it was not wrong.
Chris Little: It wasn't particularly good, but it wasn't wrong, so point proved next
Chris Little: And Moore's Law, souls rest, as the grids get finer, the focus get better, and as computers get faster we can do finer grid. Next slide. By the way, should say on the end of that slide
Chris Little: Moore's Law, still adhering, we're still adhering to it, the CrayXC40 fits on the line at the top right hand corner, so 2020 CrayXC40. And the weather forecasts have got better and better. So this is the main square error of pressure of the Atlantic and you can see over 30 years
Chris Little: The forecast got much better the horizontal purple line is persistence. That's how accurate forecast is if you say, today's the same as tomorrow will be the same as today, which is what you're trying to beat. Next. Now,
Chris Little: Look,
Chris Little: Then as computers developed. That's the Swedes had the bright idea of producing a zebra chart, that's a global map from the North Pole, in the middle. Next.
Chris Little: That's a Russian chart, of now we've got plotting by hand, and then drawing lines on a big piece of paper, 'bout A0 size, but you can't read it as it's in Russian. But the symbols are all standardized and have been standardized for a long time. So any meteorologists can use it. Next.
Chris Little: He's German chart, again you've got the plotted observations, you got the contours drawn by hand and got the fronts which computers are not very good at fronts because they, discontinuities. Next.
Chris Little: And of course, this is all completely different from the development of GIS and geospatial and mapping systems because they're meteorological
Chris Little: And this is a more up to date one because we've included satellite imagery in the clouds, and we've got all the layers. This now online is not on paper, it's on a screen, we can switch the layerss off and on. And of course, then you start switching off some of the layers to make the map make more sense. Next.
Chris Little: So you've removed some of the stuff, you've got the winds. You got the arrows, you've got multiple layers of pressure, temperature and there is rain, for example.
Chris Little: And that's a very standard meteorological chart, and next.
Chris Little: Of course, you remove even more data to give the chart or the map to the users. This is a standard chart given to all airline pilots.
Chris Little: All pilots in the world would receive a significant weather chart, remove all spurious stuff and left in the stuff that only important to the pilot the significant weather,
Chris Little: The strong winds, the base of the clouds, the height of the clouds, where the clouds are, where the thunderstorms are and turbulence, and actually on that map halfway down the left hand side you can see Etna is erupting right, so little volcano there so. Okay, next.
Chris Little: And that's where we've been, right, so then this is the rude part of the talk.
Chris Little: In the 1980s, I was asked to give do a 30 day demonstration of
Chris Little: A piece of GIS software. In the 80s, GIS software was not to be popular.
Chris Little: There's no internet,
Chris Little: There was no mobile phones, we're starting to get mini computers at work, and we though we didn't use them for weather forecasting.
Chris Little: Spent a couple of weeks, getting the data from the mainframe supercomputer down onto the mini computer
Chris Little: That's another story.
Chris Little: Guy came into this 30 day trial of this be software we run it on, I think it's a DEC 11-750,
Chris Little: VAX-11/750, took about an hour to produce the best weather map I've ever seen. Beautiful chart, beautiful contours, contours all labeled right way up.
Chris Little: And I then said, and he's then said, well, oh that's fantastic. I've never seen a weather map from a geospatial information system and
Chris Little: he said 'Are you going to buy the software'. And I said 'no' and he said 'why' I said because 'it's just taken an hour to produce that chart. This is the biggest mini computer we got so can produce 24 charts a day. We're already producing 100,000 charts a day'.
Chris Little: So so niche use of geospatial software systems stayed niche in meteorology for decades.
Chris Little: Just for specific products where you needed really fancy maps, while we chugged along with our thousands and thousands of maps, but then
Chris Little: 10 years ago we got involved in GIS, because we discovered exchanging maps with Web Map Services was feasible. So we've got involved, and that's more or less where we are now. We've been very involved in OGC and W3C
Chris Little: Next slide. I'm running out of time.
Chris Little: Oh, so. So here's my thoughts, where we should be going now.
Chris Little: Okay, next.
Chris Little: Meteorology had this long history of tweaking technology, using technology, changing it. We used to write our own operating systems, we used to write our own programming languages.
Chris Little: We had our own telecoms protocols, because the mainstream ones weren't good enough, or fast enough and we stopped doing that now as they've got good enough.
Chris Little: We've had our own data formats for 30-40 years
Chris Little: They're quite advanced scientific, container format. They're useful.
Chris Little: And I can take the blame for some of them.
Chris Little: And we're starting to move away from those two generic ones but visualization, as I've just shown you is still very specialized and the semantics is totally specialized, but actually visualization and semantics is exactly where GIS's are
Chris Little: Next,
Chris Little: So these are he problems we don't have gigabytes of data, we have petabytes of data. The data is 3D and 4D. It's constantly changing. We've got multiple time attributes.
Chris Little: Time intervals are irregular, time scales are very varied from climate predictions over centuries, and we go backwards and forwards in time.
Chris Little: We've got vertical coordinates and they're not height above sea level or height above the terrain, they are pressure levels, aircraft fly on pressure levels. They don't fly on an altitude.
Chris Little: And we are not averse to say, well, let's make the equator go through Paris, we put the North Pole in the middle of the Pacific and will bend
Chris Little: South Pole, so it's in the South Pacific. That's kind of thing we do right, that upsets geographers. And the other thing we do, of course, is we produced thousands of forecasts for the same time on some books.
Chris Little: Well, maybe hundreds, next slide. So they're all problematic for large scale map production.
Chris Little: And that trend is going to continue
Chris Little: As, as we can afford the next computer resolutions, going to improve global models are currently running about 10 kilometer grid.
Chris Little: And it will slowly come down to a high resolution, nested grids running at one kilometer, they may go to lower than that, not much below because you then get into problems with turbulence. So data is going to get bigger and bigger. We routinely blending it with lots of other people's data.
Chris Little: And we're kind of moving away from our domain specific solutions to more generic solutions which is where W3C comes in, of course.
Chris Little: And of course, we've got our own visualization so. Next slide. We're getting towards the end. The problem we have with GIS systems and maps and cartography is layers don't cut it for us. We've had one of the saddest things I see is
Chris Little: A mapping specialist in the last four or five years coming on, say, oh, look, we put a time slider and a vertical slider on our mapping software.
Chris Little: And I say oh sorry, we've been doing it for 30 years, right.
Chris Little: And if you've got
Chris Little: 100 levels in the atmosphere, 110 levels in the atmosphere. You got 10 data times, every, the forecast for every six hours for next four or five days you've got 1100 levels.
Chris Little: Not a 1100 levels, parameters,  you're interested in, you're talking about millions of layers. There's no way I'm going to select those off a legend, right. So, so the layer
Chris Little: Metaphor is broken for us. Next
Chris Little: Now if I look at what's going on inside OGC, which is about interoperability standards for
Chris Little: Mapping. There's a lot of 3D activity going on. We've got flight simulation. We've got gaming, we've got
Chris Little: unmanned vehicles in particular drones, both above ground on ground and below ground, underwater. We've got underwater model, underground modeling going on for tunneling
Chris Little: We've got smart cities, 3D portrayal of smart cities and none of those are based on the traditional 2D cartography, they're all completely
Chris Little: Coming from a different place.
Chris Little: And there's still this attempt to say 'we can get to 3D by starting from 2D and adding the extra dimensions'.
Chris Little: Where you can sort of, but actually it's much easier to start from 3D because, for example on the previous talk from Danielle, I thought was very interesting that she's kind of reinventing in JavaScript, and JSON, all the stuff that the hardware is already doing in the GPU.
Chris Little: GPUs in most devices, phones and laptops, are designed to do 3D graphics. They've got hardware to do 3D graphics, and actually it's more work to do it in 2D. You have to solve yeah, zero out some of the mixes, but they all agree, yeah, they're all set up to do it.
Chris Little: So in a sense, I'm treating the view that we should really be doing mapping in 3D. And then if you just look downwards, you see the 2D map. And of course that solves some fundamental problems, if it's in 3D, you don't have any problems about whether the red road goes over the blue river.
Chris Little: Or under the black railway track. That problem of drawing things on maps and the drawing order just goes away.
Chris Little: It's in 3D. And when you when you do the projection
Chris Little: Then get the right drawing order.
Chris Little: Of course, then if you do in 3D, you do vertical maps, cross sections, which are important meteorology. Next.
Chris Little: So, so this is my last slide.
Chris Little: Where do you want, where do, where do you think we're going to go, what is technology allows us to go. I think in five years time, we won't have any meteorological software anymore.
Chris Little: We've there's been a big industry of it, and it slowly diminishing, fewer and fewer players, more, more sophisticated just become GIS systems, generic software and meteorological style sheets.
Chris Little: The real issue in any visualization is handling the data, not actually the visualization
Chris Little: In 10 years. Well, the GIS Systems be, and I'm just going to posit that there won't be any GIS systems, all the browsers will be doing it, browsers will be aware of where you are, and that all data will be geospatial
Chris Little: And that's my view, really, the rest of it. I'm waiving.
Chris Little: So I think really the important thing is that the vertical and time has to become first class citizens in the mapping world.
Chris Little: Right, so that's where I'm going to stop.
Chris Little: Next slide, any questions.
Chris Little: I hope I didn't run too much.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Well, we're all over running today. So I'm going to say questions can go on to Gitter or Discourse, you're going to continue along with our
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Last talk of the day. So let me get my notes. Sajeevan G is Associate Director at see doc, the Center for development of Advanced Computing, which is associated with the government of India.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: He has more than 25 years in geospatial domain, he will be speaking to us about web GIS application for the Indian Prime Minister's rural road program. Sajeevan, welcome.
Sajeevan G: Hi.
Sajeevan G: Is it audible?
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Yes, we can hear you.
Sajeevan G: Ah,
Sajeevan G: Can I share my screen.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: I can see it.
Sajeevan G: Good to go?
Sajeevan G: Is it okay?
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: All good.
Sajeevan G: Okay. So the topic is web JS application for Indian Prime Minister's rural road programme. I am Sajeevan, we are into high performance computing, C-DAC is
Sajeevan G: Since inception in 2003- sorry, 1988, we are into high performance computing and close to 3000 people all over India, and my group is working on geospatial technologies and
Sajeevan G: Let me and the...
Sajeevan G: OK, so I'll be talking about Prime Minister's rural road program. So I always I will be referring to PMGSY, PMGSY stands for
Sajeevan G: Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana in Indian language ,and the progress the pictures, what do you see in the photographs etc in the left side
Sajeevan G: speaks about the importance of the rural road program, launched by government of India to provide all better road connectivity to unconnected rural habitations.
Sajeevan G: You could see the, you will see the starting 2000, the year 2000, the PMGSY, I always be referring to PMGSY for the Prime Minister
Sajeevan G: Rural Road Program. So that is has changed the face of the rural India with quality roads.
Sajeevan G: previously made, you used to have really very bad roads in India, the quality of road is really commendable and the program is funded by World Bank
Sajeevan G: And this particularly rural road program has an allevation of property, access to market, employment, healthcare, and education, and a lot of things has changed a bit. The PMGSY has worked.
Sajeevan G: A little bit of history about the program, how we started into, let me come into a web GIS, the topic of my presentation today.
Sajeevan G: And we have started with the PMGSY started with customizing the Arc, way back in 2005, and in that time it's 2005-6 you have even customize to
Sajeevan G: WebGIS application, that is in MapXtreme.
Okay, good.
Sajeevan G: Okay, the web GISapplication, which is developed using ASP.Net and the engine behind is MapXtreme
Sajeevan G: And if you look into this and we have worked as if like a standalone GIS software. You could see the map and this picture on the right side which is coccurrence here, you can see the users can make a lot of query like
Sajeevan G: What is your habitation which is conducted or what is the village road. And the person is able to see the attribute information, just like a standalone system and see the details below.
Sajeevan G: Coming currently, that was the history back in 2005-6 center.
Sajeevan G: Currently we have what is called GRRIS, that is open to public anybody can go to this particular site, pmgsy-grris.nic.in,
Sajeevan G: A lot of information about the program is it and seeing it spatiallly how the data, how the things are connected, how the road is it is for the decision makers, as well as for the
Sajeevan G: Public it is basically it is open to general public. Here also you could see the classifications, different category of populations we can make the
Sajeevan G: Colorful maps with a lot of legends and once you go into the particular system estate and it
Sajeevan G: Can go there. Select the scheme, whether it is in the MPS via one or two or currently three is going on different schemes and in pitch. The government is approving particular type of roads.
Sajeevan G: And basically, just started with the interconnecting, initially started with with habitations which are about 400 populations, and then Haley and
Sajeevan G: Populations with the backward classes, SE and STD have started connecting with the 250 population, population mentioned a particular cluster of human
Sajeevan G: Population in a habitation. The population should be 250 or above. And despite public publicly available system you have, so I can see the legend something around 23
Sajeevan G: Layers of GIS layers, arbitration, roads and drainage, a lot of information which is record for the managing and monitoring of the PMGSY program and we call it PMGSY National GIS to us to address it.
Sajeevan G: Two most important positive things about this particular, particular web JS application, which is currently available.
Sajeevan G: It is a live non spatial data integration the MIS and the GIS. Yes, we just have all the features that means we don't have any other information other than the ID and the spatial information.
Sajeevan G: Information is coming from the MIS system that is cluster somewhere else and that particular
Sajeevan G: Application is also available for public information, omms.nic.in, which you can access. So they've already, what happening is
Sajeevan G: The information, The information about each feature is getting updated within the OMMS MIS and within the GIS system we have the, just the spatial information.
Sajeevan G: And bottles on top of each other and previously what you have seen and a particular thing here, even the information about the
Sajeevan G: habitation, what do you have, a partition, name of the habitation, all the queries, everything coming from the main system, live. So this transcript to the particular
Sajeevan G: System live on current, so that normally otherwise unless and until you updated GIS system. It is, it is very difficult to get updated.
Sajeevan G: So, so it is almost as I showed you previously, which is working like a live standalone system, they user is able to query the system, user is about to get the result.
Sajeevan G: And they are able to see the tables of the each feature, clicking on certain feature if you can see the, more information about that, and what he lacked in this particular engine, behind us a GRRIS is what I call the GRRIS, the previous software, it's
Sajeevan G: Transaction based, so GIS engine it is mapping statement. And so we were trying to find out how we can transact with the day
Sajeevan G: That GIS system you can update it online. So we have come up with Online Geospatial Transaction System that has been completely using free and open source software and
Sajeevan G: Probably if the time permits, actually enforce them badly in another training program. So maybe fit as possible today or another day will be able to demonstrate if you're interested, but I will cover it up things and barely my
Sajeevan G: Member parties also attending it but this the attendees, a developer of this particular system. And if time permits, or he can also show and demo here because I've been moving out to another program. So let's have a basic look into the
Sajeevan G: the Geo server, what we call the online geospatial transaction system, means the user should be able to log in. it's based on authentication. There's a login screen.
Sajeevan G: And once the user is authenticated, the user can go and change the data online and basically start with uploading the data.
Sajeevan G: And the beauty of the system is the shape files can be uploaded online. It could automatically published of it.
Sajeevan G: And the system, whatever the user is. So previously, what used to happen, is he stayed in India is to send the data to see that used to manually do the quality controls. He started
Sajeevan G: Making the compatibility about how it is managed, and compatibility with a MIS system, how many features that's missing or how many are
Sajeevan G: perfectly aligned with MIS system, so we check it manually and choose to send it. So now it is it'll be, system is currently live, but this waiting for launch. So I will not, maybe, probably not
Sajeevan G: should not go into much detail. But the interesting thing is if users can upload the information, the shape file,
Sajeevan G: And to make the reports online, see how things are, and modify the system online and also they can make a state a report, the after you get it, you add more data, how they are the status compared to
Sajeevan G: The MIS system. How many are missing or these reports can be national report, as well as there is a utility portrays map. I will show you some slides and the subsequent
Sajeevan G: presentation. So it is already the next slide. Also, there is an option to download the user so into
Sajeevan G: The edit everything and the users can download the shape file online, and they can modify in case the regular again, they can upload it into the system, or they can modify it online. Also, there is an option to deliver
Sajeevan G: The OGC standard web services to other agencies, because nowadays people are, as you know, it is asking for other publishers are asking for shape files, so the system is enriched with the giving the
Sajeevan G: OGC standard geospatial service to other agencies.
Sajeevan G: So this is about the editing I was talking about, once a user is logged in, there is an option to
Sajeevan G: The based on the user, they will be taken to a particular area, it iss actually the user is not pointed it out, so this area of influence.
Sajeevan G: So, for example, there is a, in every state there is a project implementation unit. So they will be given a login that will be so many
Sajeevan G: logins and a state administrator who would be approving the whatever changes to party user. So from the left side of the list, to guess, you see here
Sajeevan G: Left side of the drop down list, user can select any of the WFS services to be edited.
Sajeevan G: And on the right side, you can also see WMS services. Basically the services coming from externally, the first service, you see the one
Sajeevan G: That is coming from Indian Space Research Organization. So the satellite data, you see, and this particular display, is coming. That is called Bhuvan.
Sajeevan G: And satellite data. Also there is an option to access OpenStreetMap or any other satellite data can be added in the external service. And we know that the GIS layer's internal services which we created
Sajeevan G: Using WMS services or WFS services, which can be put into the background so that they will be very faster and people will be able to
Sajeevan G: See comparatively what is behind. Maybe the drainage, maybe the proposals, maybe the
Sajeevan G: Roads, and these are can also talk the information because information about some of the features, these are coming from the
Sajeevan G: MIS access from the MIS registry. It's like the, behind this particular thing is the OpenLayers different than this OpenLayers and the back end. We have not many technologies like GeoServer
Sajeevan G: also, some of the things in GDAL,
Sajeevan G: Like, then postGIS, not so many differences in the backend
Sajeevan G: So one utility, which I said the web services or web API because the system is having a lot of APIs and
Sajeevan G: One thing I just wanted to show is the benefitted habitations because the people are interested, the MIS system is interested in knowing the benefitted habitations
Sajeevan G: Supposedly constructed road, the things  you see in this particular whatever magenta or whatever color you see there, is a road.
Sajeevan G: With the MIS system is passing to this particular to the GIS system in which he wants a habitation actually benefitted have constructing that road. So once we construct one road.
Sajeevan G: The people are interested in knowing what other habitations, which has benefited out of it, but there may assess limitations, MIS people just enter it. They just say, okay, there's many habitations
Sajeevan G: have benefited especially, is that true so that verification is done through the GIS system within the three kilometer radius. We take your the habitations.
Sajeevan G: And also we find out the roads, how much it takes to reach each habitation. So it's a simulation because
Sajeevan G: Simulation we do to, and a third sorry the not the simulation simulation. The next one is the finding out the shortest route to reach each habitation, whatever is within
Sajeevan G: Three kilometer distance we are returning. Those are the benefitted habitations, that is the criteria defined by BMT so, so right side, y,ou could see the
Sajeevan G: JSON string which is we want to the MIs system, and the left side you can see what is actually happening geospatial analysis. What we do internally to arrive.
Sajeevan G: One more thing I just wanted to show you the simulation for road prioritization, what we call it a tracemap, I showed you the beginning so which road to be taken
Sajeevan G: On priority for the construction or maintenance. That's what we are doing it over here. So since we,
Sajeevan G: It's very difficult to keep on updating the traffic intensity, what we are doing the simulation.
Sajeevan G: So what we are doing here is, it's it's particularly specifically for the PMGSY program which are right now to facilitate identification, priorities of roads
Sajeevan G: So what we give is maybe we'll take the top 10 roads. Okay, these are the roads which we have suggested or the the system has suggested based on the
Sajeevan G: shortest route and parameters of population. How many population that road is serving agricultural market, education, medical facility.
Sajeevan G: Three important things which are going to control the marketplace, if there is marketplace or education institution or medical facility. So if there is a
Sajeevan G: facility like this, so each habitations, as you see here is stored the people from that place will be moving to all these facilities. So we find from
Sajeevan G: Each habitation these travels to all the facilities and people tracing the maps, it is a simulation continuously finding the shortest route and
Sajeevan G: Finally, find out the top most or based on the frequency. It's like a heat map. So the talk most, maybe 10 the provider to that. The, the, here we can see the, maybe the red color is used to most of the time, so that should be taken for one priority to
Sajeevan G: To. These are all I just am showing the some of the things which you do in GIS. So some of this suggestions will support my topic. Some of the suggestions say would like to give the Maps4HTML.
Sajeevan G: Hello.
Sajeevan G: Hello, am I audible?
Peter Rushforth: Oh, yes. Yeah.
Sajeevan G: So before it support this for the understanding which may be useful for the programmers or that there's would be
Sajeevan G: coding it. So all of us know the WGS85 ellipsoid/datum. So most important, people will be confused too. So they can go to this particular
Sajeevan G: The upper or my research get topics and they can get to understand what you do. There is a confusion on many people can choose between the authalic latitude and geodetic latitude.
Sajeevan G: So it is not the thing we are normally concerned, that is fear and and we're not constantly after the sphere, we are considering is an elipsoid so the geodatic latitude.
Sajeevan G: At a location is the angle between the equatorial plane and in the line normal to the reference spheroid. That means in the case the user is standing at the point x
Sajeevan G: There is a WJCT for ellipsoid, which I see the fly is the geodetic latitude. It's if it is an authalic latitude, that is around [inaudible] if it is standing that itself. So there is a really clearly difference between geodetic latitude and
Sajeevan G: authalic latitude. So we should be very clear about where we're standing, we are find, when when you're taking the angle, you are taking the angle normal to the ellipsoid, or the
Sajeevan G: spheroid surface. So that means to not go to the center, except for equator, all the North and South, whatever you consider. So this is very important in terms of spatial accuracy, because of the papers that I have, even you can go to that and
Sajeevan G: So that we will not make compromise on the spatial accuracy. Another very interesting and important thing I just wanted to make a point of my, my suggestion is here, you can see both are from Google, on Google map in the left, and right side, I given a
Sajeevan G: Green border, which is a global view where you can see the Greenland and how they shape and the size compared to Canada, you could see that.
Sajeevan G: But at the same time, and the left side again land compared to the size you can say it is very small, because it is Mercator projection. And if you make some of the measurements on this, visually they appear really incorrect. So what I said, just a we could maybe probably go with
Sajeevan G: This type of displays, like an acro view and sort of demonstrate people zoom in, zoom and zoom and they could take you to that particular place and then we can go with a
Sajeevan G: Projection normal to that. So we could avoid for example in the next slide, I will show you the size of Antarctica.
Sajeevan G: we can see that two years ago, we used to participate in Antarctic expeditions. If we feel bloated here.
Sajeevan G: You can see it, since it's just the visual, it is going to be a incredibly important to use this in a particular projection. If you use assessment data projection.
Sajeevan G: Or getting projection or whatever projection in the condition where if you use it, it's going to be really, really and [inaudible] to the size, shape and
Sajeevan G: compared to that. So in fact, you can see in the right side, we could see the size of Antarctica when we put it in a global view. And what I suggest to based on this is how we are achieving it is what
Sajeevan G: The thing is, okay, what I suggest a degree in can, avoid standard my projection and implement on the fly projection at the viewer. So, this we have implemented even in PMGSY,
Sajeevan G: Which are talking about. So we just clearly said previously, what we used to have this. We used to have a base map over which people use to
Sajeevan G: Broaden things. So here we have said not projection. So we don't have a projection. So what we have the normal geodetic latitude and longitude. People are mapping the information, the latitude and longitude probably they use the
Sajeevan G: GPS unit or, if the previous map, what you have you need to convert those
Sajeevan G: maps into proper W basic latitude and longitude. So
Sajeevan G: They remain in the same, particularly if you start projecting the projection. Reprojection after reprojection, there's a chance of getting the accuracy getting lost. So what we actually, we are not living in
Sajeevan G: An age of like a paper maps, so we could keep the paper map and we used to have used to have the coordinate system. Then once we have projected on to the, once we have the information or what the
Sajeevan G: Ellipsoid or spheroid. Then the last stage, we used to take the projection where these cylindrical, conicalor others in the projection
Sajeevan G: So we didn't have to do that. That's what I my point of view, is to keep the information there as and then where we just project it. So in the digital world, you can project and the last state.
Sajeevan G: As I'm really critical. That's what is happening that someday maybe going again that is going to be the best practices bucket because you keep on keep reprojecting and reprojecting without confirm
Sajeevan G: The way they might, there is a possibility of like the accuracy cutting costs. So the thing I just wanted to make again is a global view.
Sajeevan G: Like Google Odyssey, seen here, probably we can look into that pane and as well as location scale of it. So once you zoom into that you can be the informational assets or the projection the way you want. It is too much
Sajeevan G: Goods and zoom when you can think of any of the like a way to like, Cartesian coordinate or projection in that we have, anything will do
Sajeevan G: And location aware, where you are standing or if you keep the information of suppose a bit if it is in South Pole. If you get information based lat long
Sajeevan G: Since you brought it here, they will appear very nicely. But if you keep it in already projected systems like Easting, Northing, those things. So the information transferring and converting
Sajeevan G: It will be compromising on the quality, and also he suggested us as well as we need to be the permission to view the data services, which into maybe locally the information that people should be able to access the data web services.
Sajeevan G: And as I already told you this spatial accuracy is very important so that we can have the interoperability properly so otherwise previously worked us to be normally we faced and in GIS, so a lot of the initial our data is in this and
Sajeevan G: Polygon prediction. So in case anybody made a mistake and converting those things
Sajeevan G: Without understanding the base projection and maybe they convert it into without understanding. Take the map and project it in WGS84
Sajeevan G: That is going to be around, and it is very difficult to correct afterwards and listen until he recorded so, so that way the considering the spatial accuracy, you should
Sajeevan G: Have it and there's some more suggestions, Okay, we should have definitely the way we obtain our to see time for the Web APIs to come. And the most, Another thing is a previous setting or speakers already talked about, cybersecurity. It is very important we
Sajeevan G: Keep the cyber security in there, so that the user the expecting a trustworthy data. The data security is very important and
Sajeevan G: The when I am expecting when I needed it, I should be the data should be available. I should not take the data security because what I meant, is because somebody should not manipulate the data
Sajeevan G: Somewhere. So what we have here is the in the NGIS have authentication and set of privileges are given, and we have implemented some of the things in the way
Sajeevan G: This is an order, since we could implement wherever possible. So when you're sharing the data right now in WMS and WFS services. Normally we are giving the URL.
Sajeevan G: So we need to also work on how to authenticate those things properly so that somebody else is coming to know the URL.
Sajeevan G: They should not be able to hijack the data. So we need to work on, so, authentication and authorization properly, so able to quantify maybe accessing your GeoServer or we should be able to
Sajeevan G: Like, or we can manage those. And then case, I think previously someone was talking about some speakers are also talking about the prioritizing are selecting a multilateral position.
Sajeevan G: That may be difficult. Maybe what they feed is how to prioritize it, or we may enter like a professional software like the commercial software.
Sajeevan G: Maybe adding all the projections and datums. So initially, I think I have, you have a lot of collaborations with the Canada, PCH, Geomatica, initially get back in 2008 customized loading geomatica, that's used to be a very powerful, especially in projection and everything, that was really
Sajeevan G: Good product.
Sajeevan G: And with this initiative, I think we should expect enormous contribution from the developer community. So the HTML mapping work,
Sajeevan G: And if you are able to put it into an HTML. So the contributions coming from the developers around the world. So the
Sajeevan G: The geospatial data as a service could be the next a business opportunity like two people could serve based on their requirement. I'm interested in
Sajeevan G: Keeping my entire data here, I may be interested in only a small or
Sajeevan G: Maybe I just wanted to see what is the benefit application, so I didn't have to keep all the data. I just want maybe a one time requirements or somebody else could be in the service and
Sajeevan G: I could use those data so we should expect maybe a data as a service geospatial data. So this could be a next thing. And thank you all, it is a,
Sajeevan G: In case, maybe you can have
Sajeevan G: The question answer or in case you want a demo, my member part can give or two, we can
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Thank you Sajeevan, unfortunately, we
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Are
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Well over time today. So we won't do that. But maybe getting in touch with the program committee, we might have time for that demo later in the week.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: And thank you, you covered so many different issues. I'm sure there will be discussion.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Follow up with
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: The discourse pages and
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: Many threads of ideas there, there has been already lots of interesting
Peter Rushforth: Discussion and so
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: I know we're losing participants. We're going to close down the video session, but the conversation continues online. Thank you everyone who has been here today, or who
Is jumping up
Sajeevan G: Thank you Peter
Sajeevan G: Very Much. Thank you.
Sajeevan G: Yeah, a lot of interactions. Okay.
Peter Rushforth: Excellent, excellent advice.
Sajeevan G: Okay.
Doug Schepers: Good. Thank you, everyone.
Amelia Bellamy-Royds: We will see you all again in less than 30 hours.
Peter Rushforth: Good night. Good Day.
Chris Little: Good. Thank you. Thank you, Emily.